
NAN KADAVUL – THE WINE COMEDY
The cart rattled its way through the wilderness, heading to the cities of the East. The beast pulled the carriage with ease, despite the rocky terrain and the persistent rain. The monotony of the week-long journey allowed Old Nan to her thoughts. This might be common for an average old woman but Old Nan was not an average old woman. A widespread rumour has it that if you remove Old Nan out of the equation, the mean life expectancy of a human will drop by three months; and this rumour has been around for decades. Her powerful old mind traversed back and forth across the centuries of memories until it fixated on a memory that she, once, used to cherish.
A sudden clap of thunder alarmed the horse, which started pulling the cart even faster. The bumpy ride and the sound of thunder woke Arya and San up.
“Nan, I’m afraid.”, said San whose face had been blanched out of fright.
“My sibling is a craven”, commented Arya pulling a toothy grin.
“Shut up! Nan, could you please tell us a story?”.
Nan smiled, “Of course, my dears. I had just been thinking of one. It’s a story that I have never told. Now, we are all aware of the condition of Bran, aren’t we?”
“Yes, Nan.”
“Now, Bran used to complain that I always mistook him for another Bran Stark. Remember?”
“Yes, Nan.”
“Well, the name is not the sole reason I mix the people up. It is their lives as well. What do they say about history, dears?”
“That it is boring.”, sighed Arya, who always put up an act of being bored by Nan’s tales while the lemur eyes, rapt with attention, told otherwise.
“That it repeats.”, corrected San.
“You are quite right, Arya. History is indeed boring. That is why I am going to keep this short. The “Bran”s have always been the unluckiest of the Starks. Most of them die young, some get crippled and some are dwarves. I’m going to narrate the story of a particular Bran Stark, two hundred years ago, whose fate was strikingly similar to that of little Bran’s. He fell from the same tower albeit at the age of twenty.”
“Did he like to climb too?”
“No, he liked to drink. He was an alcoholic and a disgrace to the House of Stark.”
“I cannot believe that a Stark was a drunk!”
“He used to reason that by drinking, he was preparing for the winter that was coming. Bran had a loyal friend called Robert Baratheon. This Robert did not drink but stuck by Bran’s side making sure that he reached home safe. Years passed. Bran continued cracking open cold ones and Robert continued taking care of Bran until the duo was named “Brandy Stark and Sober Baratheon.” This cracked open a chasm in their friendship. Bran was convinced that he could take care of himself when drunk. He proclaimed that one day he will brew the best wine of the Seven Kingdoms and call it “The Royal Stag”, eternally damning the reputation of the House of Baratheon by disrespecting their sigil.”
“What happened then?”
“The gods showed no mercy to the braggart. On the same night, Bran ventured into the high tower and perched himself upon the window to prove that his drunk self was sure footed. He fell headfirst to his death. Alas, Robert was his only friend to attend the funeral. Now, dears, what did you learn from the story of your great-grand uncle?”
“Never fall headfirst from the High Tower?”, Arya chuckled.
“You should never let go of your friends. You have to be thankful to them for they have always got your back.”, Nan corrected.
Arya gave an involuntary smile as he turned towards Santhanam. Santhanam acknowledged it with a nod. They had always known that they were the best of friends but had never expressed it enough.
“NANBEN DA!“, they shouted in unison.
The cart came to a screeching halt as the newly appointed Warden of the East, Vadivel Frey welcomed the guests.
“Arya, how long has it been since you have trained with the Needle?”, asked Santhanam mockingly, pointing to Arya’s skinny legs.
To Be Continued.
 
SANSA STARK aka Santhanam at the Red Wedding

 
DERMATOLOGISTS HATE HER/HIM. 
Stark girl exposes the secret of how she grew a beard.
LEARN THE TRUTH NOW.
         
Warden of the East

 
The Needle (Arya’s legs)

 
 
 
 
 
 


 
Share this:TwitterFacebookLike this:Like Loading...

Related
 