
NANBEN DA?
The luxurious lives of the people of the East had always amused Old Nan. “How could a kingdom led by a man like Vadivel Frey, given his dark past, be a happy one?”, she wondered. She loathed the Warden of the East. Whenever he tried to commence a conversation with her, she would try to snub him and politely withdraw from the rather short exchange with a courteous nod and a barely concealed smirk.
This behaviour of Old Nan didn’t go unnoticed by the big-eyed Arya. He (refer Chapter-1 if you want to know why Arya is a ‘he’) had always thought of Nan as a positive person who loved everyone and bore no hostility. Nan’s cold attitude towards the Warden of the East irked Arya. He had shared his concerns with San who seemed indifferent towards the matter. Arya made up his mind to confront Old Nan.
Arya made his way towards the chamber of Old Nan as fast his little legs could take him. The palace of the Warden was beautifully symmetric which would often confuse Arya and he would end up in the wrong room. But the curiosity that was eating up his brain led him correctly to the unlit chamber of Old Nan. Nan’s rooms were always dark. It was a shocking contrast to her life which seemed bright and cheery.
Arya almost did not see San on Nan’s lap. Nan was reciting one of her weird stories. He traced his way back to his room, unnoticed. He didn’t want San to know that he wouldn’t let go of his belief that Nan was behaving oddly around the Warden.
Meanwhile, San had already asked the question to Nan.
“Nan, Arya thinks that you do not like the Warden of the East. Is it true?”
“Now, why would he think that, San? Do you think so too?”
“No, it’s just that I have seldom seen you talking  with the Warden.”
Nan realized that it was time. The children had started asking questions. Some of the best years of her life flashed across her eyes. The dark past of Vadivel Frey was about to be heard by a mere child. She hesitated, for San was still a child and she wondered if he would still like his Old Nan after he heard the story.
“It happened seventy years ago. Vadivel Frey was a very bad man. He was still as rich as he is now. But he put his money to bad use. Have you heard of the legend of Batman, dear?”
“Yes, Nan.”
“Vadivel Frey was Batman.”
San gasped in disbelief.
“Yes. The Warden of the East used to be Batman. Vadivel wasn’t a Frey by birth. He was a Lothston. The day his parents died at the hands of a dwarf, he was adopted by the Freys.  He chose the sigil of the Lothston house, the bat, to immortalize himself as the Batman. He terrorized the Seven Kingdoms. He tortured and jailed innocent people. He had a belief that all dwarves were evil and had to be imprisoned. A certain dwarf who went by the name ‘The Penguin’ tried to stage an uprising, which went astray. The terror he struck in the people’s heart was enough to make a hero. The Bane of the Bat. A hero rose from nowhere. Bane was the perfect rival. Bane broke Batman in every way possible. Batman, mortally afraid for his life, accepted defeat and hung his cape. He retired into the luxuries of his palace.”
“Whoa! Nan, who was this Bane? Where is he now?”
“A hero rises to the occasion, dear. Maybe, Bane is just waiting for the occasion to arise.”
“But doesn’t he deserve to be treated like a hero by the people?”
“Well, maybe, HE is already being treated like a hero by the people he loves.”, Nan smiled, “Go to sleep, dear.”
*
Arya was lost in the labyrinth of rooms. He stumbled into what seemed to be the bedroom of the Warden. The deserted room was ornate with an abundant stock of antique pottery, strange gadgets and a magnificent bed. On the posh bed, lay the fattest book that Arya had ever seen. A worn-out Arya sunk into the comforts of the Warden’s bed, his legs throbbing with pain from all the running. The big book provoked the interest of Arya; he fastened the lock of the door. The title of the book read, “I was Batman.”
Shocked to the borders of Westeros, Arya let out a snort imagining how the bent, potbellied Vadivel Frey could have possibly terrorized Seven Kingdoms. The first page of the book had a post-it pasted on it. It said, “Bane: Silver of hair. Short. Cracked voice. Blue eyed.” This came as an astonishment to Arya as he had always imagined Bane as a tall, muscular man with a hoarse voice and definitely not with blue eyes.
Arya’s eyes grew wider than they already were, astounded.
*
Arya was out of breath when he reached the chamber of Old Nan. Nan was not there; San was sleeping on her bed.
“Wake up, San! Wake up!”
“What happened, Arya?”
“Where is Nan?!”
“I don’t know. Why?”
“I’m going to ask her about the Warden. This is going to shock you. Vadivel Frey was Batman!”
“Calm down, Arya. Nan told me his story.”
“What! Then, you must look at this.”
Arya showed the post-it to San. Realization dawned upon them. They screamed in unison,

“NAN BANE DA!”

Arya couldn’t decide whether it was excitement or fear. Everyone in Westeros considered Bane to be a hero. But Arya had always believed that there were two sides to a story. He decided to get them out of the room and then make a decision. He made a dash to the door, grabbing San by his wrist. Nan emerged from behind the door and closed it behind her. A grin appeared on her wrinkled face, her piercing blue eyes fixated on the children. The duo scurried into the vastness of the chamber. Arya hid himself behind the curtains while San hid under the bed. Arya desperately hoped that Nan couldn’t find him in the darkness of the unlit room.
Nan shouted mockingly, her face feigning sympathy,

“Oh, you think darkness is your ally?”

To be continued…
 
Rare picture of Vadivel Frey in his days as Batman, circa 150 A.D

 
 


 
Share this:TwitterFacebookLike this:Like Loading...

Related
 