
KINSLAYER
A pair of bloodshot eyes, moist with bewildered crying, analyzed the dingy interiors of a cell. The cell was a box of emptiness, like what her life had come down to, thought Old Nan. She could see no doors, windows or any opening through which she might have been pushed inside. She noticed a mirror in the farthest corner of the cell and walked towards it. The mirror showed her reflection: an old, wrinkled face with teary eyes. Suddenly, a grin spread across her face. It was at that moment that Old Nan realized she was in a dream. Old Nan doesn’t cry.
*
Arya and San had heard the news of their Nan being held captive by the Dothrakis. They showed no hesitation in informing the queen about it. Cersei Lannister, the Queen of the Seven Kingdoms, was initially shocked because the feat was deemed impossible, but later rejoiced, internally, for someone had taken down one of her enemies. The relationship between Cersei and Old Nan had always been cold and sugarcoated hatred. Neither of them missed a chance to buffet a snide remark or an insult on the other. It was purely the popularity of Old Nan that made Cersei hate her. And when she heard that Old Nan was subdued by the Dothrakis, she couldn’t stop smirking.
The Hand of the Queen, Johnny Arryn, also known as Taap’ Stharr (Dothraki for ‘The Hitman’) walked into the Cersei’s chambers, meekly.
“Give me one last chance, Highness.”, he pleaded, “I’ll defeat the Khal’s army and bring Old Nan alive.”
“Fool! I don’t want that wretched bat alive. I want her as dead as your career.”, Cersei hissed.
“My lord, I seek forgiveness. I seek one last chance. I’ll bring her head to you. Johnny will surely satisfy you, my queen.”
Cersei didn’t trust Johnny Arryn in the slightest. But what he had said made her think. If she conquered the Khalasar, she would have conquered Old Nan by transitive property. She had led numerous wars before but the thought of this, the sheer number of men she would require got her trembling.
“Deploy a hundred thousand of my finest soldiers!”, she commanded, “The Hound will lead the cohorts. We plan to capture them by the end of this month.”
As Johnny Arryn hung his head in shame, hundred other men let out war cries in unison.
*
“Are you sure? Do you think the Queen wants to hurt our Old Nan?”, asked Arya.
“I’m telling you. She told it in front of me. She is starting a war against the Dothrakis.”, Johnny Arryn replied.
“Then we have no time, we have to get there and save Old Nan ourselves. We’ve been betrayed by the Queen herself.”, exclaimed San.
Arya, San and Johnny scuttled their way to the stables.
“Get on your horses! Quick.”, Arya whispered, urgently.
Johnny hung his head in shame, again.
“You don’t have a horse, do you?”, San asked.
Johnny shook his head, almost crying, hoping to be asked to mount one of their horses.
“In that case, bye bye, Taap’ Stharr.”, said Arya, waving a goodbye to the Hand of the Queen, who broke down once they were out of his sight.
*
Dany Targaryen was shrewd. He understood the ulterior motive of the war that had been declared against his Khalasar. He was also aware of the odds that were stacked up against his army.
He said, “Thirty thousand men can never beat a hundred thousand men. But thirty thousand men can destroy ten thousand men, ten times. Our unity is our strength! Our enemies must shiver to stand in front of us. Let us show them what real fear is. We have toppled several kingdoms. We can topple seven more. DOTHRAKIIII!”
The khalasar roared with pride and a newfound belief in their Khal. They hailed him as the greatest Khal they ever had.
*
Cerseis’s spies returned with coordinates of the Old Nan’s prison. She ordered her agilest assassins to finish Old Nan off. They bowed and left on their stallions. The army of the Seven Kingdoms was resting fifty miles from the khalasar. The plan was to surround the Dothrakis from all sides and close in on them. The hundred thousand would become twenty five-thousands. The legions were set to branch out at sunset.
The news of Arya and San missing bothered Cersei a lot more than it should have. She wondered if they knew of her devious plan. She reassured herself saying that it didn’t matter. It wouldn’t matter if two pesky children knew that she was plotting the murder of Old Nan. It wouldn’t matter for she would be the Queen of All Kingdoms if she captured the savages.
Cersei sipped her wine, as she narrated her strategy to herself. The war trumpets blew marking the start of the war. The sound of thousands of stallions galloping seemed to vibrate the entire valley.
*
“HAHAHAHA! They must be kidding. They’re attacking just the way we wanted them to.”, bellowed a Dothraki soldier.
“Easy money.”, shouted another.
Dany Targaryen didn’t share their optimism. Was Cersei playing into the hands of Dany because she had another plan up her sleeve? Was Cersei cruel enough to risk the lives of a hundred thousand men to kill one person? Dany sat down to think.
“If there are twenty legions, which one would Cersei lead? None. So, where is Cersei? Hiding? Perhaps. Trying to get to Old Nan? Most probably. But can she? No way, there are a thousand men protecting her. What should I do now? Check if Old Nan’s safe.”
*
The battle continued for hours, relentlessly, claiming one life after another. The grainy sands of the khalasar became soaked with the red of blood. The place was filled with the sound of violence: horses shrieking in agony, men letting out their final breaths, distraught women grieving, tents burning. It was not a happy sight. War had claimed many and still ensued. Dany could take it no more. He mounted his horse to check on Old Nan.
As the horse took off, an arrow whizzed towards Dany and pierced the flesh of his horse’s thigh. The horse yelped in pain. In a swift motion, Dany was dislodged from his horse onto the ground. His limbs went numb after being stabbed by a large needle. He opened his eyes to see the smug face of Cersei. She grabbed Dany by his hair and led him onto a makeshift stage.
She announced, “Your leader, your Khal, was trying to bail on you. He was trying to desert you in the middle of a war. He left all of you to die! He tried to escape on his beast. What kind of a pathetic leader do you have?!”
Cersei’s stronghold around Dany’s neck didn’t allow him to speak. He wasn’t able to flail his numb limbs to show disagreement. It seemed like Dany was hanging his head in shame.
Silence prevailed with a look of bewilderment on the faces of the Dothrakis. Their leader wasn’t fighting the allegations against him. Did he really try to bail?
Without wasting a minute, Cersei slit the throat of Dany Targaryen. The crowd hissed collectively.
“All hail, Cersei Lannister, the Khal-slayer, the Conqueror of Kingdoms and the Queen of all of Westeros.”, screamed one of Cersei’s men.
The Dothraki population accepted the chant.
Cersei was the new Khal.
*
Meanwhile, it had been a day since Old Nan escaped from her confinement. The guards had no clue that she had escaped. It had taken a day for her wounds to heal. She spent the day by a nearby stream, tending herself and meditating.
The sound of footsteps drawing closer caught her attention but it didn’t bother her. Whoever it was would have to face her wrath.
“NAN!”, shouted Arya joyously as he went and hugged her.
Old Nan was taken by surprise but she hugged them back.
“We love you, Nan. It doesn’t matter that you were Bane. We just want you back.”
Overwhelmed with emotions, Old Nan let out her first drop of tear.
“Old Nan missed you too, kids.”
“We have news for you Nan. Cersei Lannister waged war against Dany Targaryen. She won. And she is searching for you.”
The piece of information left Old Nan shell-shocked.
Old Nan thought, “So, Cersei has defeated an army of thousands of savages. She has killed a very powerful ruler. And she has made herself the ruler. CERSEI KHAL AH?“
To be continued…?


 
Share this:TwitterFacebookLike this:Like Loading...

Related
 