
ENTER TARGARYEN : BEND NANNY
Weeks had passed since Arya and San went into hiding. Old Nan had lost them in her one moment of weakness. The escape of the children gave birth to two equally horrifying implications: Old Nan’s secret was out in the open and the children could be captured by the beings in the wild. The former scared her more. She knew that she had become too old to survive alone in the labyrinth of the wilderness.
‘Take me to the Dothrakis!’, she commanded. Her horse gave an energetic neigh and galloped towards the West. The Dothrakis were savages, they married their kin, killed them when needed. Their morals were non-existent. But the Dothrakis were excellent scouts, they knew their way in and out of the woods, they could sense danger just by the smell of the air. So, Old Nan resolved to seek their help to find Arya and San.
Meanwhile, Arya and San devised a plan to bring their beloved Old Nan back to normalcy. They believed that Old Nan was overreacting and that she shouldn’t be so alarmed as her secret was safe with them. They set out to approach the Queen herself.
*
      The regal sun descended below the horizon leaving its subjects of the khalasar burnt and thirsty. Even the toughest of the Dothrakis worshipped the Sun God for mercy. The khalasar drew the perimeter of their camp ground and put up tents for the women to sleep and lit a bonfire for the men to drink around.
    A raven swooshed into one such horde of drinking men. It carried a letter. The men summoned the only person in the khalasar who could read, Dora Mormont. The men ripped the raven’s limbs apart, cooking the unsuspecting bird in the bonfire. Dora arrived in haste, gasping for breath, she announced, ‘Old Nan is coming!’
The raven BBQ seemed forgotten as the men digested the information. One could hear the gentle breeze in the silence of the khalasar. The men knew of the scheming mind of Old Nan. The younger men had heard tales of Old Nan’s kindness to the people of the Westeros and her hatred towards the nomadic Dothrakis. The older ones had experienced her wrath in a battle that lasted for a month leaving tens of thousands of Dothrakis dead. ‘What could possibly bring her here?’, Dora wondered.
Dora woke Dany up. She shared her fears with Dany who had no knowledge about Old Nan’s hatred towards the Dothrakis. Dany Targaryen was a little person. One would have a hard time believing that the lean frame of Dany Targaryen led an army of thirty thousand barbarians. Dany’s commanding attitude was what kept the army together.
Dany addressed the crowd, ‘I heard that Old Nan is coming. Now, I did not know that she was a threat to us. But I do now. If she is coming here, then she has a purpose. She may or may not disclose it to us. But we have to be very careful. Do not trust her at all. Be very diplomatic when dealing with her. Let us fulfill her requests and be done with her as soon as possible.’ An incessant cheer followed.
Not all Dothrakis liked Dany but all of them followed the orders for the fear of losing their lives. A leader of savages should show no mercy. Dany knew it. Dora was the only person Dany trusted. So, when Dora volunteered to accompany Old Nan to the camping grounds, Dany had some apprehensions. But Dora was the only person who could converse with Old Nan, leaving Dany with no other option. Dora bid farewell to the khalasar and left to bring Old Nan to the camp grounds.
*
    Dora saw Old Nan clad in royal colours, mounted upon a muscular horse, sporting a toothless grin. Maintaining a safe distance from her, Dora greeted Old Nan.
‘I could have come to your place myself if you Dothrakis didn’t live in the middle of nowhere’, Old Nan complained, ‘How do you people even navigate in this wilderness?’
‘We have our ways’, said Dora.
 (wink)
 
*
    Dothraki horns blared, the drum beats resonated with the footsteps of the parading Dothrakis who had underwent NCC training to please Old Nan. The magnificence of the reception of Old Nan was on par with a Sikh marriage.
‘I do not seek your luxuries or your comforts. I come here in peace. I want to find my grandchildren who are lost in the maze of the forests of the East. Help me find them and you shall escape my wrath’, threatened Old Nan. It was a funny sight that such a fearsome threat came from a woman who needed help to mount her horse. Yet the calm in her eyes, while saying the words, was a startling sight. It was the demeanor of a woman who let out such threats in the past and managed to survive.
Dany was not scared by Old Nan or her demands. Dany was scared by the khalasar’s fear of Old Nan. Dany was scared that the people might consider Old Nan as a replacement for Dany. To prevent this, Old Nan had to be put in her place. She must be humbled in front of the thirty thousand men.
Dany positioned herself in front of Old Nan, exclaimed, ‘I am Dany Stormborn of the House Targaryen, the Unburnt. The guardian of the dragons. The ruler of the Seven Kingdoms of the Westeros. I have heard your request. I have my armies ready. I shall find you your grandchildren. But before that..’
‘What?’
‘Bend the knee!’ commanded Dany.
‘Listen, child. I do not have the time for this. I need to find my grandchildren before the beings in the wild get to them.’
‘BEND THE KNEE!’
‘Alright, here’s the thing, child. I would love to bend the knee but I cannot bend the knee. Rheumatoid Arthritis really is a pain in the knee. I cannot risk bending the knee for I may pass out if I do.’
‘Such insolence! Warriors, capture her.’
The bravest of the Dothrakis surrounded Old Nan. They pointed their sickles at Old Nan’s face. Old Nan held her hands up, went down on her knees. The Rheumatoid Arthritis got to her and Old Nan swooned.
‘Take her as prisoner. Tie her up in my tent.’
As the men tied Old Nan up, Dany crouched beside her and whispered,

‘Yaar edathula vandhu yaar scene podradhu? SENJIRUVEN.’

Dhanush ‘Dany’ Targaryen happily whistled to himself knowing that there was no one who could be a potential threat to his claim to the throne.
To be continued…
 
The coronation ceremony of Dhanush ‘Dany’ Targaryen, circa 2017

 
 
 
 
 
.


 
Share this:TwitterFacebookLike this:Like Loading...

Related
 