
It was a beautiful morning for everyone, but especially for Generic Company’s employees or executives as they liked to be called. The all-encompassing sky spread farther and farther beyond human vision. Yet it felt exclusive to them, as though the sky they were looking at wasn’t visible to anyone else. What may have led to this train of thought, one could argue, is that, in the portion of the world where it was dawn, it was highly possible that no one was awake for it was a Sunday morning. 
Eli held his hot pink cotton candy against the lilac sky, blocking out the gentle smothering of the sun, losing out on his required dose of vitamins for the hundred and twenty third consecutive day. But he couldn’t be blamed for the first hundred and twenty two days. It was the sun’s fault for not finding its way into the mines of Silicon Valley. However, Generic Company’s benefits program entitled him to health insurance. So, he was all fine. 
Why Eli was holding cotton candy was also why his fellow employees (executives) were particularly chirpy that day. It was time for Generic Company’s Annual Employee Party. It was the one day when the company attempted to make their beloved employees feel the way that the company’s website claimed. Until recently, the party was hosted on a Saturday night every year, when one executive from the top management pointed out that he would miss an episode of a TV show that was aired every Saturday. Employee satisfaction is crucial, but not at the risk of spoilers, he said. So, the management unanimously voted to push the annual party to a Sunday. But they didn’t want their employees (when they discussed amongst themselves, the top management didn’t really bother to call the employees executives) to turn up fatigued for work the next morning. So concerned were they with the health of their executives that they finalized the parties to be held on Sunday mornings thereafter.
Eli, the copper miner standing in the midst of four hundred other copper miners, marvelled at the sight that lay in front of him. Of course, the cotton candy stall was deliberately put up to cover the sewers that ran behind it. But otherwise, the venue was magnificent. Aerosmith’s Dream On was being played by 4 Shadows, apparently a top-tier band in all of Addis Ababa. Eli watched the guitarist with matted hair and a tough build stomp his foot on the scaffolding that they played on. The scaffolding was part of the party’s rustic theme, they had been told. It was quite odd, Eli thought, that the scaffolding had fit into the various themes the party had adopted: Steam Age, Poverty, Arrears in Civil Engineering and Wood. Of course, the previous year’s theme of Wood had warranted a sausage vendor to set up shop in place of cotton candy. Surrounding the central attraction, the band, were all kinds of festivities: hammer throwing, merry-go-round, photo booths. Lurking in the shadows of these carnival attractions were cleverly placed sponsor stalls, most of them the company’s own sister companies. 
In all the hustle and bustle characteristic of a carnival, Eli spotted a couple of colleagues who he hadn’t seen in ages. They had opted to work from home. Eli had always found the concept a bit weird. A huge hole in one’s backyard isn’t exactly an aesthetic sight. And what were the chances of someone striking gold in their own garden? He had been digging in a certified mine and he himself had never struck gold. That’s why he could never get his big break, he often reasoned. He was digging in a copper mine looking for gold. And everyday, he dug out volumes and volumes of copper, which were of no use, the company had said. So, everyday the company cleared out his mess for him by disposing the copper into some factory they had built. It was funny how very few people had actually struck gold in their jobs. Eli couldn’t help but feel a little jealous whenever it actually happened. The look on their faces when they hand over the gold to the company is nothing short of gloating. They received bronze plaques to commemorate their service.
As he walked past the stalls, he saw someone unfamiliar. She was a beauty in the eyes of any beholder, the apple of all eyes, an apple that doctors would die for. In the back of his head, something told him that he knew her somehow, that he had seen her somewhere. With unbridled confidence characteristic of a man working in a place full of men, he walked over to her and asked, “Do I know you?”
“Uh, hi Eli. We’ve been working together in the mine for five years now?” she replied.
“Is it? It’s just that one doesn’t see women often in the field I work in. I might have thought you worked in HR or something,” he said with steadfast conviction that he had just pleased her by calling her worthy of HR. Before he could be corrected, he walked away towards the stage. 
The band had finished their performance early as they were running late for their bus ride back home. The stage was now occupied by a sharply dressed announcer, an embodiment of corporate luxury. He exclaimed into the microphone, “Are you all living the corporate dream?!” to the explosive reply of “Yes, we are!”
And as he was chiming in, Eli froze mid-scream. The tumultuous applause continued without his insignificant support. He looked at the people around him. Something seemed eerily unsettling about all of them, something that told him that they weren’t whom they seemed at all. He ran towards his nearest colleague who had his back turned towards Eli. As Eli reached out for the shoulder, he felt his hand hit solid nothingness. He couldn’t quite put a finger on it for he had touched a vacuum. Panic seeped in as he looked around frantically to spot one person he knew. He turned, turned and turned, but he could find no one. He recognized their faces, but couldn’t recognize the person beneath it. Their eyes were vacant and unfocused, lips sipping beverages and fingers clutching at straws. 
“What is happening?” Eli asked himself. From within came an answer, an awakening. He wasn’t told, but he knew what was happening. He was lucid dreaming. He was literally living in a dream. This knowledge calmed him. And as the cliche goes, it was the calm before the storm. 
Eli was experiencing a hyperreality like none other, living in a place with no repercussions. He could do anything he wanted and get away with it. Right? No. To his dismay, he realized that he couldn’t force anything to happen. He couldn’t bend the dream to his liking. In fact, he couldn’t do anything at all except stay put and do what he was supposed to do according to the dream. He had gained only sentience, not control. He watched things happen, said things he was meant to say, did things he was meant to do and it was with a horror that he realized that he had been in a lucid dream for a long long time. He just hadn’t realized it. 
A year later, Eli struck softly and soullessly into the hard ground beneath him, with the grim consciousness of reality or the lack of it. The cognizance was a burden that crushed him everyday. He wished he could take control, but the deeper his desire was, the heavier was his disappointment when he realized what he already knew, that it couldn’t be so. But somehow, he suddenly felt a sense of defiance kicking in, and along with it a dull hunch that this defiance too was in the script. He turned to a particularly old colleague and found himself asking, “Hey, do you know that we are in a dream right now?”
He saw the colleague’s eyes go aghast, filling with horror, his mouth widening in disbelief, and fingers pulling his own skin. “Why did you remind me what I had taken years to forget?” he asked and collapsed into the ground. Eli had gotten what he wanted: a counter-sentience. He woke up. And as sudden as his awakening was, so was his prompt descent to sleep. He went back into his dream world, but now equipped with the fix to his troubled existence in it: ignorance. 



 
Share this:TwitterFacebookLike this:Like Loading...

Related
 