
Being in the League of Extraordinary Gentlemen was no joke. It meant doing extraordinary things week after week, month after month, year after year. Apart from being an impressive addition to the resume, it was also a highly exclusive experience. Not everyone got to be a part of it. While no one outside the League actually knew what it did, the League held its reputation as an important organization. And any important organization needs a good leader.
Who is a good leader, one may ask. Everyone in the League concurred that Petri certainly was one. But it was time for him to go. It was time for him to choose his successor with the counsel of his trusted advisor, Archie. And this process of selection was considered the most extraordinary of things that the League did, because it was not an easy task to choose one and only one from a bunch of extraordinary members. This year was no different. The contenders for the League’s throne were Count Dracula, the vampire, and Lupa, the werewolf.
As the saying within the League went, most of the selection happens before the interviews. So, Petri was propped up on his chair, cross-legged, deep in thought. Archie mimicked him. They had such chemistry between them that their thoughts were identical. That was why they made such a great team. So, at this instance, their thoughts were the same. Who would be the successor? Both Dracula and Lupa were equally deserving candidates as far as their contributions to the League went. 
With deep sadness, Petri and Archie realized that these candidates were inherently the same on skill level. They were left with absolutely no choice except to judge them based on factors beyond their control, such as the species they belonged to. It was an awkward situation as they had had no intention to judge candidates based on their species. They had no idea how the League had let this happen for the two thousandth consecutive year. Petri was a man of honour and him being forced to make a decision on the basis of one’s species made him squirm. He blamed all of his predecessors for not having found a solution to this problem.
A good leader, such as himself, ought to be open to diverse opinions, Petri thought. So, he decided to consult his former belle, O’Ginny, about the matter at hand. The fate of the League of Extraordinary Gentlemen lay in the hands of Petri, Archie and Ms. O’Ginny. They meticulously drew two columns on a big white board, one for each candidate. With less than three hours to go for the interviews, the trio began their process of selection. 
“Firstly,” Petri commenced, “let us state the most obvious pros and cons of each candidate.”
Count Dracula, being the vampire that he was, would not be able to attend to daily administrative matters that happened during the day, lest he get burnt to ashes by sunlight. Lupa, on the other hand, would not be able to preside over (the very important) meetings with the League which definitely had to happen at night (for reasons unknown), lest she risk her transformation into the savage beast she was. 
Archie declared that, if he had to prioritize, the League meetings had an edge over the administrative duties. So, on that front, Lupa (truly unfortunately) lost to Dracula.
The next most important parameter was how the species was in popular view. Werewolves tended to hunt in packs. One would think that that would make Lupa a good team player. On the contrary however, Archie interjected, it made Lupa less capable of doing anything on her own. Vampires tended to lurk alone and this made them naturally independent, and consequently good leaders. Dracula now had not one, but two edges over Lupa.
The trio shook their heads in unison. They were learning that two individuals who seemed to have been equally valuable to the League were so further apart. The next factor, which O’Ginny speculated might give the edge back to Lupa, was beauty. She pointed out that even though one’s physical appearance must not be a factor for success in the ideal world, the grim practicalities of our world dictate that a beautiful person becomes a better leader than a conventionally less attractive one (unfortunately).
Lupa was certainly good-looking. She had a delicate facial structure and a constant smile that was accompanied by a glint in her eyes. But, O’Ginny interjected, what about her hair? She had hair all over and it wasn’t particularly a pleasant sight. With the conviction of a person who had raised a valid point, O’Ginny decisively crossed her clean-shaven legs. Petri nodded in agreement. Dracula, on the other hand, had a lean constitution which he always masked with an oversized hoodie. It made him look super cool, they agreed. With that agreement, they morbidly realized that Lupa had lost even in the area which seemed like her stronghold. 
With that final nail driven deeply into the coffin, the coffin resident seemed to be the heavy favourite for the position. Petri opened the floor for additional remarks. Archie strengthened their inclination towards the vampire by reminding the others that Lupa acted irrationally whenever she’s in her beastly form and that that wouldn’t bode well with the authorities. However, Archie continued, Count Dracula’s habit of sucking bodily fluids would help maintain solid relations with the authorities. 
The trio realized that the interviews were scheduled to begin in less than an hour. And it was during this brief amount of time, something miraculous happened. Guilt arrived like clockwork. The trio shifted in their seats uncomfortably from time to time. All it took for them to understand the unfairness of their actions was a few moments of awkward silences. Petri, being the true leader that he was, announced that whatever discussion they had had till then should not be taken into consideration for the selection process. By making the first move, Petri was convinced that he was absolved and that he was morally superior to the others. Archie and O’Ginny agreed after some reflection. 
A few hours later, Count Dracula was unanimously decided as the leader of the League after being given a fair interview. However, the decision truly wasn’t unanimous due to their prejudices. It was unanimous because Lupa had failed to show up for her interview. Petri wondered whether it had something to do with the interviews being scheduled at night. 


 
Share this:TwitterFacebookLike this:Like Loading...

Related
 